.TH dircproxy-crypt 1 "11 Jan 2001"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002,2003 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
.\" Copyright (C) 2004,2005 Francois Harvey <fharvey at securiweb dot net>
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dircproxy-crypt.1,v 1.7 2004/04/24 09:32:26 fharvey Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public
.\" License.  For full details, read the top of 'main.c' or the
.\" file called COPYING that was distributed with this code.
.SH NAME
\fBdircproxy-crypt\fR \- Generate encrypted password for \fBdircproxy\fR

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdircproxy-crypt\fR
[\fB-hv\fR]
[\fBpassword\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dircproxy-crypt
generates encrypted passwords for the
.BR dircproxy (1)
configuration file.  These passwords are used in the '\fBpassword\fR'
configuration option of a connection class, and are compared to the
password you configure your IRC client to use.
.PP
If you do not supply any plain text passwords to encrypt on the command
line then \fBdircproxy-crypt\fR, when run, will ask you for one on
standard input.  It will display the encrypted version of each password,
created using your system's
.BR crypt (3)
function and a random salt, on standard output.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Displays a brief help message detailing the command-line arguments,
then exits.
.TP
.B -m
Create a MD5 password hash
.TP
.B -v
Displays the \fBdircproxy\fR version number that this version of
\fBdircproxy-crypt\fR comes with, then exits.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dircproxy (1)
.BR crypt (3)

.SH BUGS
Please submit and review bug reports at:
.PP
.I http://dircproxy.securiweb.net/

.SH AUTHOR
Current maintainership by Francois Harvey <fharvey at securiweb dot net>

Written by Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2004,2005 Francois Harvey <fharvey at securiweb dot net>

Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002,2003 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.

\fBdircproxy\fR is distributed under the \fIGNU General Public
License\fR.
