#summary Checklist for creating a release

*_Note:_* List is for old site, needs updating for google code host.

= Release checklist =

 #  Perform a `make maintainer-clean` and remove any litter
 #  Check it compiles and runs --enable-debug
 #  Perform a `make maintainer-clean` and remove any litter
 #  Check it compiles and runs without any flags
 #  Fix any bugs/warnings, commit them, and return to 1
 #  Perform a `make maintainer-clean` and remove any litter
 #  Run `cvs2cl --gmt --prune -U AUTHORS.map -l '-b'` to create new !ChangeLog.  If this is a non-head branch replace the "-l 'b'" with "-F BRANCH-x_x".
 #  `rm !ChangeLog.bak`
 #  `cvs diff source:trunk/ChangeLog > changes.txt`
 #  Edit changes.txt and undiffify it
 #  Read changes.txt and write summary.txt from it
 #  Write release.txt including summary.txt after an "-----Official Summary-----" marker and blank line.
 #  Edit the NEWS file, add in new version and any config/use changes
 #  Adjust the Features list in the README file if necessary.  This will also require the adjustment of the website's index.html.in file.
 #  Any changes to INSTALL?  Do them and adjust website's install.html file.
 #  Do a general `cvs commit -m "Version x.x.x released."`
 #  do a `cvs tag RELEASE-x_x_x`
 #  do an `autogen.sh` without any flags
 #  make dist
 #  `gpg --armor --comment 'See http://dircproxy.securiweb.net/DircproxyDownload for more information' --detach-sign DISTFILE`
 #  `md5sum DISTFILE > DISTFILE.md5`
 #  scp dist file, md5 file and asc file to tetris:~ftp/pub/dircproxy/unstable
 #  Remove 'src' directory from website and replace with new version
 #  Add new news item title "dircproxy x.x.x released" containing release.txt
 #  Add new version to bugzilla's dircproxy product
 #  Run build-site.pl to make the site carry the latest information.
 #  Check the site front page, news page and download page.
 #  Announce new version on freshmeat using summary.txt
 #  E-mail dircproxy-announce list with release.txt making sure to sign the e-mail.
 #  E-Mail lester@mazpe.net with any significant changes that could affect packaging (new files etc), making sure to sign the e-mail.
 #  Update and upload the new Debian package to master
 #  Edit source:trunk/configure.ac & source:trunk/contrib/dircproxy.spec and increment the version number, commit with message "SVN version now x.x.x"

----------
'''To remove litter:'''
{{{
for A in . conf contrib crypt doc getopt src; do \
		(cd $A; rm -rf `cat .cvsignore`; rm -rf *~); done
}}}