.TH dircproxy 8 "23 Aug 2000"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dircproxy.8,v 1.1 2000/08/23 13:30:38 keybuk Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public
.\" License.  For full details, read the top of 'main.c' or the
.\" file called COPYING that was distributed with this code.
.SH NAME
\fBdircproxy\fR \- Detachable Internal Relay Chat Proxy Server

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdircproxy\fR [\fI\-D\fR] [\fI\-I\fR] [\fI\-h\fR] [\fI\-v\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dircproxy
is an IRC proxy server designed for people who use IRC from lots of
different workstations or clients, but wish to remain connected and
see what they missed while they were away.
.PP
You connect to IRC through
.B dircproxy
, and it keeps you connected to the server, even after you detach your
client from it.  While you're detached, it logs channel and private
messages as well as important events, and when you re-attach it'll let
you know what you missed.
.PP
This can be used to give you roughly the same functionality as using
ircII and
.BR screen (8)
together, except you can use whatever IRC client you like, including
X ones!

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -D
Run in the foreground instead of becoming a daemon.
.TP
.I -I
Indicates
.B dircproxy
is being run from the
.BR inetd (8)
daemon.  This implies
.I -D.
.TP
.I -h
Displays a brief help message about the command-line options and exits.
.TP
.I -v
Displays the dircproxy version number and exits.

.SH DETAILED DESCRIPTION

.SH NOTES

.SH SIGNALS

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inetd (8)

.SH BUGS
.B Please submit bug reports at:
.IP
http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=5645

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.  The copyright
holder is Scott James Remnant.  See the file COPYING for details.
