.TH dircproxy 1 "23 Aug 2000"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dircproxy.1,v 1.6 2000/08/24 09:17:17 keybuk Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public
.\" License.  For full details, read the top of 'main.c' or the
.\" file called COPYING that was distributed with this code.
.SH NAME
\fBdircproxy\fR \- Detachable Internal Relay Chat Proxy Server

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdircproxy\fR
[\fB\-hvDI\fR]
[\fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR]
[\fB-P\fR \fIlisten_port\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dircproxy
is an IRC proxy server designed for people who use IRC from lots of
different workstations or clients, but wish to remain connected and
see what they missed while they were away.
.PP
You connect to IRC through \fBdircproxy\fR, and it keeps you connected
to the server, even after you detach your client from it.  While you're
detached, it logs channel and private messages as well as important
events, and when you re-attach it'll let you know what you missed.
.PP
This can be used to give you roughly the same functionality as using
ircII and
.BR screen (8)
together, except you can use whatever IRC client you like, including
X ones!
.PP
Authentication is provided by a password, and optional hostname checking.
This links it to a \fIconnection class\fR specified in the configuration
file.  Only one user may use a connection class at one time, when that
user detaches, the connection to the server is kept open.  When someone
(usually the user) subsequently connects to \fBdircproxy\fR and provides
the same password, they are reconnected to the connection to the server,
instead of having a new connection created for them.
.PP
Multiple connection classes can be defined, allowing multiple people to
use the same proxy.
.PP
\fBdircproxy\fR can use either a \fI.dircproxyrc\fR file in the user's
home directory, or a system-wide \fIdircproxyrc\fR file.  It will load
the first it finds (home directory first, then system-wide).  If no
configuration file is specified, it will not start.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Displays a brief help message detailing the command-line arguments,
then exits.
.TP
.B -f \fIconfig_file\fR
Specifies the configuration file to be used, overriding the default
search list.
.TP
.B -v
Displays the \fBdircproxy\fR version number, then exits.
.TP
.B -D
Run in the foreground and do not fork into the background.
.TP
.B -I
Use to indicate \fBdircproxy\fR is being run from the
.BR inetd (8)
daemon.  This implies \fB-D\fR.  For more information on running
\fBdircproxy\fR under
.BR inetd (8),
see the \fIREADME.inetd\fR file.
.TP
.B -P \fIlisten_port\fR
Specifies an alternate port to use, overriding the default and any
value specified in the configuration file.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Put info on the configuration file here.

.SH SIGNALS
\fBdircproxy\fR will reread its configuration file whenever it receives
the hangup signal, \fISIGHUP\fR.
.PP
Sending an interrupt signal, \fISIGINT\fR, or a terminate signal,
\fISIGTERM\fR, will cause \fBdircproxy\fR to exit cleanly.

.SH NOTES
More information, including announcements of new releases, can be found
at:
.PP
.I http://dircproxy.sourceforge.net/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inetd (8)

.SH BUGS
Please submit and review bug reports at:
.PP
.I http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=5645

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2000 Scott James Remnant.  All Rights Reserved.
\fBdircproxy\fR is distributed under the \fIGNU General Public
License\fR.
