.TH dircproxy 1 "11 Jan 2001"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dircproxy.1,v 1.37.2.1 2002/08/17 19:08:41 scott Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public
.\" License.  For full details, read the top of 'main.c' or the
.\" file called COPYING that was distributed with this code.
.SH NAME
\fBdircproxy\fR \- Detachable Internal Relay Chat Proxy Server

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdircproxy\fR
[\fB\-hvDI\fR]
[\fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR]
[\fB-P\fR \fIlisten_port\fR]
[\fB-p\fR \fIpid_file\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dircproxy
is an IRC proxy server designed for people who use IRC from lots of
different workstations or clients, but wish to remain connected and
see what they missed while they were away.
.PP
You connect to IRC through \fBdircproxy\fR, and it keeps you connected
to the server, even after you detach your client from it.  While you're
detached, it logs channel and private messages as well as important
events, and when you re-attach it'll let you know what you missed.
.PP
This can be used to give you roughly the same functionality as using
ircII and
.BR screen (8)
together, except you can use whatever IRC client you like, including
X ones!
.PP
Authentication is provided by a password, and optional hostname checking.
This links it to a \fIconnection class\fR specified in the configuration
file.  Only one user may use a connection class at one time, when that
user detaches, the connection to the server is kept open.  When someone
(usually the user) subsequently connects to \fBdircproxy\fR and provides
the same password, they are reconnected to the connection to the server,
instead of having a new connection created for them.
.PP
Multiple connection classes can be defined, allowing multiple people to
use the same proxy.
.PP
\fBdircproxy\fR can use either a \fI.dircproxyrc\fR file in the user's
home directory, or a system-wide \fIdircproxyrc\fR file.  It will load
the first it finds (home directory first, then system-wide).  If no
configuration file is specified, it will not start.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f \fIconfig_file\fR
Specifies the configuration file to be used, overriding the default
search list.
.TP
.B -h
Displays a brief help message detailing the command-line arguments,
then exits.
.TP
.B -v
Displays the \fBdircproxy\fR version number, then exits.
.TP
.B -D
Run in the foreground and do not fork into the background.
.TP
.B -I
Use to indicate \fBdircproxy\fR is being run from the
.BR inetd (8)
daemon.  This implies \fB-D\fR.  For more information on running
\fBdircproxy\fR under
.BR inetd (8),
see the \fIREADME.inetd\fR file.
.TP
.B -P \fIlisten_port\fR
Specifies an alternate port to use, overriding the default and any
value specified in the configuration file.
.TP
.B -p \fIpid_file\fR
Specifies a file to write the process id to, overriding the default
and any value specified in the configuration file.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file has the following format:
.PP
Empty lines and lines starting with '#' are comments.
.PP
Connection classes start with 'connection {' and end with '}'.  They obtain
default values from all the entries above them in the configuration file,
and may contain values of their own.
.PP
Otherwise a line is of the format 'keywords arguments'.  If the argument
contains spaces it should be contained in double quotes ('"with spaces"').
The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows (note that the
configuration file is not case-sensitive):

.PP
.B LOCAL OPTIONS
.PP
These options may not be placed inside a connection class as they affect
the operation of the entire \fBdircproxy\fR server.

.TP
.B listen_port
What port should \fBdircproxy\fR listen for connections from IRC clients
on?

This can be a numeric port number, or a service name from /etc/services

.TP
.B pid_file
File to write the \fBdircproxy\fR process id to on startup.  If you start
this with a "~/" then it refers to a file in a directory under your
home directory.

 none = Don't write pid file

.TP
.B client_timeout
Maxmimum amount of time (in seconds) a client can take to connect to
\fBdircproxy\fR and provide their password and nickname etc.

.TP
.B connect_timeout
Maximum amount of time (in seconds) a client has to provide a server
to connect to after they've logged in.  This only applies
if '\fBserver_autoconnect\fR' is 'no' for that class.

.TP
.B dns_timeout
Maximum amount of time (in seconds) to wait for a reply from a DNS
server.  If the time exceeds this then the lookup is cancelled.

.PP
.B GLOBAL OPTIONS
.PP
These options may be placed in a connection class, or outside of one.  If
they are outside then they only affect those connection classes defined
afterwards.

.TP
.B server_port
What port do we connect to IRC servers on if the server string doesn't
explicitly set one

This can be a numeric port number, or a service name from /etc/services

.TP
.B server_retry
How many seconds after disconnection or last connection attempt do we
wait before retrying again?

.TP
.B server_maxattempts
If we are disconnected from the server, how many times should we iterate
the server list before giving up and declaring the proxied connection
dead?

0 = iterate forever

.TP
.B server_maxinitattempts
On first connection, how many times should we iterate the server list
before giving up and declaring the proxied connection dead?

 0 = iterate forever.  This isn't recommended.

.TP
.B server_keepalive
This checks whether the \fBdircproxy\fR to server connection is alive at the TCP
level.  If no data is sent in either direction for a period of time, a TCP
keepalive probe is sent.

 yes = send keepalive probes
 no = don't send keepalive probes

.TP
.B server_pingtimeout
For some people, \fBdircproxy\fR doesn't notice that the connection to the
server has been dropped because the socket remains open.  For example,
those behind a NAT'd firewall.  \fBdircproxy\fR can ping the server and make
sure it gets replies back.  If the time since the last reply was
received exceeds the number of seconds below the server is assumed to be
"stoned" and \fBdircproxy\fR leaves it.  If you have a high latency connection
to the server, it can wrongly assume the server is stoned because the PINGs
don't arrive in time.  Either raise the value, or use
the '\fBserver_keepalive\fR' option instead.


 0 = don't send PINGs

.TP
.B server_throttle
To prevent you from being flooded off the IRC network, \fBdircproxy\fR can
throttle the connection to the server to prevent too much being sent
within a certain time period.

For this you specify a number of bytes, then optionally a time period
in seconds seperated by a colon.  If the time period is ommitted then
per second is assmued.

 server_throttle 10        # 10 bytes per second
 server_throttle 10:2      # 10 bytes per 2 seconds (5 per second)

 0 = do not throttle the connection

.TP
.B server_autoconnect
Should \fBdircproxy\fR automatically connect to the first server in the list
when you connect.  If you set this to 'no', then '\fBallow_jump\fR' is 
automatically set to 'yes'.  If '\fBallow_jump_new\fR' is also 'yes', then
you can create connection classes with no '\fBserver\fR' lines.

 yes = Automatically connect to the first server
 no = Wait for a /DIRCPROXY JUMP from the client

.TP
.B channel_rejoin
If we are kicked off a channel, how many seconds do we wait before
attempting to rejoin.

 -1 = Don't rejoin
 0 = Immediately

.TP
.B channel_leave_on_detach
Should \fBdircproxy\fR automatically make you leave all the channels you
were on when you detach?

 yes = Leave them
 no = Remain on them

.TP
.B channel_rejoin_on_attach
If '\fBchannel_leave_on_detach\fR' is '\fByes\fR' then should \fBdircproxy\fR
rejoin those channels when you attach again?

 yes = Rejoin the channels \fBdircproxy\fR automatically left
 no = Leave permanently on detach

.TP
.B idle_maxtime
Set this to the maximum amount of time you want to appear idle for
while on IRC, if you set this then \fBdircproxy\fR will reset your idle
time if it reaches this limit (in seconds).

 0 = Don't reset idle time

.TP
.B disconnect_existing_user
If, when you connect to \fBdircproxy\fR, another client is already using
your connection class (ie, if you forgot to close that one), then
this option lets you automatically kill that one off.  Make sure you
turn any "automatic reconnect to server" options off before using
this, otherwise you'll have a fight on your hands.

 yes = Yes, disconnect
 no = No, don't let me on

.TP
.B disconnect_on_detach
When you detach from \fBdircproxy\fR it usually keeps you connected to the
server until you connect again.  If you don't want this, and you want
it to close your server connection as well, then set this.

 yes = Close session on disconnection
 no = Stay connected to server until reattachment

.TP
.B initial_modes
Which user modes should we automatically set when you first connect
to a server.  Just in case you forget to do it yourself with your
irc client.

Set to "" to not set any modes.

.TP
.B drop_modes
Which user modes to drop automatically when you detach, handy to
limit the impact that your client has while connected, or for extra
security if you're an IRCop.

Set to "" to not drop any modes.

.TP
.B refuse_modes
Which user modes to refuse to accept from a server.  If the server
attempts to set one of these, then the connection to it will be dropped
and the next server in the list will be tried.

Set to "" to not refuse any modes.

.TP
.B local_address
Local hostname to use when connecting to an IRC server.  This provides
the same functionality as the ircII -H parameter.

 none = Do not bind any specific hostname

.TP
.B away_message
If you don't explicitly set an /AWAY message before you detach, \fBdircproxy\fR
can for you, so people don't think you are really at your keyboard
when you're not.

 none = Do not set an away message for you

.TP
.B quit_message
If you don't explicitly give a message when you /DIRCPROXY QUIT, this
will be used instead.  Also used for when you've sent \fBdircproxy\fR not to
remain attached to the server on detachment.

 none = Use \fBdircproxy\fR version number as QUIT message

.TP
.B attach_message
\fBdircproxy\fR can send an announcement onto every channel you are on when
you reattach to it, just to let everyone know you are back.  If you
start this with "/ME " then it will be sent as an ACTION CTCP message
(just like the ircII /me command).

 none = Do not announce attachment

.TP
.B detach_message
\fBdircproxy\fR can send an announcement onto every channel you are on when
you detach from it, just to let everyone know you are gone.  If you
start this with "/ME " then it will be sent as an ACTION CTCP message
(just like the ircII /me command).

 none = Do not announce detachment

.TP
.B detach_nickname
Nickname to change to automatically after you detach, to indicate you
are away for example.  If this contains a '*' character, then that
character is replaced with whataver your nickname was before you
detached (ie "*_away" adds "_away" to the end of your nickname);
 
 none = Leave nickname as it is

.TP
.B nick_keep
Whether \fBdircproxy\fR should attempt to keep the nickname you last set
using your client.  If this is 'yes' and your nickname is lost while
your client is disconnected, then it will keep on trying to get it back
until a client connects again.

 yes = try to keep my nickname while I'm disconnected
 no = if it changes, leave it

.TP
.B ctcp_replies
Whether \fBdircproxy\fR should reply to the standard set of CTCP messages
while the client is detached.

 yes = reply to ctcp messages while client is detached
 no = nothing but silence

.TP
.B chan_log_enabled
Whether logging of channel text to files should take place.  If this
is 'yes', then you'll be able to recall channel text when you rejoin
and see what you missed.

 yes = Channel text is logged to files
 no = Channel text is NOT logged to files
 
.TP
.B chan_log_always
Channel text will always be logged while you are offline, so when you
come back you can see what you missed.  You can also, if you wish, log
channel text while online, so if you're only away a short time you can
get an idea of any context etc.

This only applies if '\fBchan_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 yes = Log channel text while offline and online
 no = Log channel text only while offline

.TP
.B chan_log_maxsize
To preserve your harddisk space, you can limit the size of a channel
log file.  Once the log file reaches this number of lines, every line
added will result in a line removed from the top.  If you know you are
never going to want all that logged information, this might be a good
setting for you.

This only applies if '\fBchan_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 0 = No limit to log files

.TP
.B chan_log_recall
Number of lines from each channel log file to automatically recall
to your IRC client when you attach.  If this is low, you may not get
much useful information, if this is high, it may take a long time for
all the information to arrive.

This only applies if '\fBchan_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 -1 = Recall the whole log (not recommended if chan_log_always is yes)
 0 = Don't automatically recall anything

.TP
.B chan_log_timestamp
Channel text can have a timestamp added to the front to let you know
exactly when a message was logged.  These timestamps are displayed when
you recall the log files, or when automatially dumped.

This applies to ordinary channel logs if '\fBchan_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'
and also to the permanent copy if '\fBchan_log_copydir\fR' is set to something
other than 'none'.

 yes = Include timestamp
 no = Do not include timestamp

.TP
.B chan_log_relativetime
If '\fBchan_log_timestamp\fR' is 'yes' then you also have the option of
using intelligent relative timestamps.  If you do, the timestamp shown
when log file information is recalled depends on how old that line is,
making sure it displays enough information (including date if necessary).
Otherwise \fBdircproxy\fR will just tell you the time in HH:MM format which
may not be as useful.

This does mean that the time itself won't be displayed in the log files
themselves, a timestamp is in place instead.  This may cause problems
if you're doing things with the log files yourself.

 yes = Do fancy relative timestamping
 no = Do normal timestamping

.TP
.B chan_log_copydir
As well as \fBdircproxy\fR's own log files, it can also keep a permanent
copy somewhere for your use.  \fBdircproxy\fR will append all channel text
seen to this file, but will not use it itself.

If you do define it, it'll add to each log as you use it.  If you
start with "~/" then it will use a directory under your home directory.

This is done regardless of the '\fBchan_log_enabled\fR'
and '\fBchan_log_always\fR' options, although if those are off then you won't
get that text recalled to your client, despite it being in this file.
The timestamping options do apply however.

 none = Do not make a permanent copy

.TP
.B chan_log_program
Program to pipe channel text into.  If given, \fBdircproxy\fR will run this
program for each log file entry giving the full source information as
the first argument, the destination as the second and the text as a
single line on standard input.

The program can be anywhere in your $PATH, or you can start it with
"~/" if its in a directory under your home directory.

This is done regardless of the '\fBchan_log_enabled\fR'
and '\fBchan_log_always\fR' options.

 none = Do not pipe log messages to a program

.TP
.B other_log_enabled
Whether logging of server  messages to files should take
place.  If this is 'yes', then you'll be able to recall server
messages when you rejoin and see what you missed.

 yes = Server messages are logged to files
 no = Server messages are NOT logged to files

.TP
.B other_log_always
Server messages will always be logged while you are offline,
so when you come back you can see what you missed.  You can also, if you
wish, log these messages while online, so if you're only away a short
time you can get an idea of any context etc.

This only applies if '\fBother_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 yes = Log server messages while offline and online
 no = Log server messages only while offline

.TP
.B other_log_maxsize
To preserve your harddisk space, you can limit the size of the
server message log file.  Once the log file reaches this number
of lines, every line added will result in a line removed from the top.
If you know you are never going to want all that logged information,
this might be a good setting for you.

This only applies if '\fBother_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 0 = No limit to log file

.TP
.B other_log_recall
Number of lines from the server message log file to automatically
recall to your IRC client when you attach.  If this is low, you may not
get much useful information, if this is high, it may take a long time for
all the information to arrive.

This only applies if '\fBother_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 -1 = Recall the whole log (not recommended if other_log_always is yes)
 0 = Don't automatically recall anything

.TP
.B other_log_timestamp
Server messages can have a timestamp added to the front to
let you know exactly when a message was logged.  These timestamps are
displayed when you recall the log files, or when automatially dumped.

This applies to the server message log if '\fBother_log_enabled\fR'
is 'yes' and also the permanet copy if '\fBother_log_copydir\fR' is set to
something other than 'none'.

 yes = Include timestamp
 no = Do not include timestamp

.TP
.B other_log_relativetime
If '\fBother_log_timestamp\fR' is 'yes' then you also have the option of
using intelligent relative timestamps.  If you do, the timestamp shown
when log file information is recalled depends on how old that line is,
making sure it displays enough information (including date if necessary).
Otherwise \fBdircproxy\fR will just tell you the time in HH:MM format which
may not be as useful.

This does mean that the time itself won't be displayed in the log files
themselves, a timestamp is in place instead.  This may cause problems
if you're doing things with the log files yourself.

 yes = Do fancy relative timestamping
 no = Do normal timestamping

.TP
.B other_log_copydir
As well as \fBdircproxy\fR's own log file, it can keep a permanent copy
somewhere for your use.  \fBdircproxy\fR will append all server
messages seen to this file, but will not use it itself.

If you do define it, it'll add to the log as it uses it.  If you start
with "~/" then it will use a directory under your home directory.

This is done regardless of the '\fBother_log_enabled\fR'
and '\fBother_log_always\fR' options, although if those are off then won't
get that text recalled to your client, despite it being in this file.
The timestamping options do apply however.

 none = Do not make a permanent copy

.TP
.B other_log_program
Program to pipe server messages into.  If given, \fBdircproxy\fR
will run this program for each log file entry giving the full source
information as the first argument, the destination as the second
and the text as a single line on standard input.

The program can be anywhere in your $PATH, or you can start it with
"~/" if its in a directory under your home directory.

This is done regardless of the '\fBother_log_enabled\fR'
and '\fBother_log_always\fR' options.

 none = Do not pipe log messages to a program

.TP
.B private_log_enabled
Whether logging of private messages to files should take
place.  If this is 'yes', then you'll be able to recall server and
private messages when you rejoin and see what you missed.

 yes = Private messages are logged to files
 no = Private messages are NOT logged to files

.TP
.B private_log_always
Private messages will always be logged while you are offline,
so when you come back you can see what you missed.  You can also, if you
wish, log these messages while online, so if you're only away a short
time you can get an idea of any context etc.

This only applies if '\fBprivate_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 yes = Log private messages while offline and online
 no = Log private messages only while offline

.TP
.B private_log_maxsize
To preserve your harddisk space, you can limit the size of the
private message log file.  Once the log file reaches this number
of lines, every line added will result in a line removed from the top.
If you know you are never going to want all that logged information,
this might be a good setting for you.

This only applies if '\fBprivate_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 0 = No limit to log file

.TP
.B private_log_recall
Number of lines from the private message log file to automatically
recall to your IRC client when you attach.  If this is low, you may not
get much useful information, if this is high, it may take a long time for
all the information to arrive.

This only applies if '\fBprivate_log_enabled\fR' is 'yes'.

 -1 = Recall the whole log (not recommended if private_log_always is yes)
 0 = Don't automatically recall anything

.TP
.B private_log_timestamp
Private messages can have a timestamp added to the front to
let you know exactly when a message was logged.  These timestamps are
displayed when you recall the log files, or when automatially dumped.

This applies to the private message log if '\fBprivate_log_enabled\fR'
is 'yes' and also the permanet copy if '\fBprivate_log_copydir\fR' is set to
something other than 'none'.

 yes = Include timestamp
 no = Do not include timestamp

.TP
.B private_log_relativetime
If '\fBprivate_log_timestamp\fR' is 'yes' then you also have the option of
using intelligent relative timestamps.  If you do, the timestamp shown
when log file information is recalled depends on how old that line is,
making sure it displays enough information (including date if necessary).
Otherwise \fBdircproxy\fR will just tell you the time in HH:MM format which
may not be as useful.

This does mean that the time itself won't be displayed in the log files
themselves, a timestamp is in place instead.  This may cause problems
if you're doing things with the log files yourself.

 yes = Do fancy relative timestamping
 no = Do normal timestamping

.TP
.B private_log_copydir
As well as \fBdircproxy\fR's own log file, it can keep a permanent copy
somewhere for your use.  \fBdircproxy\fR will append all private
messages seen to this file, but will not use it itself.

If you do define it, it'll add to the log as it uses it.  If you start
with "~/" then it will use a directory under your home directory.

This is done regardless of the '\fBprivate_log_enabled\fR'
and '\fBprivate_log_always\fR' options, although if those are off then won't
get that text recalled to your client, despite it being in this file.
The timestamping options do apply however.

 none = Do not make a permanent copy

.TP
.B private_log_program
Program to pipe private messages into.  If given, \fBdircproxy\fR
will run this program for each log file entry giving the full source
information as the first argument, the destination as the second
and the text as a single line on standard input.

The program can be anywhere in your $PATH, or you can start it with
"~/" if its in a directory under your home directory.

This is done regardless of the '\fBprivate_log_enabled\fR'
and '\fBprivate_log_always\fR' options.

 none = Do not pipe log messages to a program

.TP
.B log_timeoffset
Difference in minutes from your IRC client to the \fBdircproxy\fR machine.
So if you're in GMT, but your \fBdircproxy\fR machine is in PST (which is
8 hours behind), then this would be -(8 * 60) = -480.  Used for log
file timestamps.

 0 = Don't adjust log timestamps.

.TP
.B log_events
Events you want \fBdircproxy\fR to log for you.  This is a comma seperated
list of event names, prefixed with '+' to add the event to the list or '-'
to remove an event.  You can also specify 'all' to log all events (the
default) or 'none' to not log anything.

Example, to just log text and action's:

 log_events "none,+text,+action"

Example, to log everything but server messages:

 log_events "all,-server"
 # you don't need to specify 'all'
 log_events -server

The possible events are:

\fBtext\fR
 Channel text and private messages

\fBaction\fR
 CTCP ACTION events (/me) sent to you or channels

\fBctcp\fR
 Whether to record whether a CTCP was sent to you

\fBjoin\fR
 People (including you) joining channels

\fBpart\fR
 People (including you) leaving channels

\fBkick\fR
 People (including you) being kicked from channels

\fBquit\fR
 People quit''ing from IRC

\fBnick\fR
 People (including you) changing nickname

\fBmode\fR
 Changes in channel modes or your own personal mode

\fBtopic\fR
 Changes to the channel topic

\fBclient\fR
 You detaching and attaching

\fBserver\fR
 Connections and disconnections from servers

\fBerror\fR
 Problems and errors \fBdircproxy\fR encounters (recommended!)

.TP
.B dcc_proxy_incoming
Whether \fBdircproxy\fR should proxy DCC chat and send requests sent
\fBto\fR you by others on IRC.

 yes = Proxy incoming requests.
 no = Do not proxy incoming requests.

.TP
.B dcc_proxy_outgoing
Whether \fBdircproxy\fR should proxy DCC chat and send requests sent
\fBby\fR you to others on IRC.

 yes = Proxy outgoing requests.
 no = Do not proxy outgoing requests.

.TP
.B dcc_proxy_ports
Ports that \fBdircproxy\fR can use to listen for DCC connections on.
This is for when you're behind a firewall that only allows certain
ports through, or when doing DCC-via-ssh.

It is a comma seperated list of port numbers or ranges of ports,
for example '57100-57199,57400,57500,57600-57800'

 any = Use any port given to us by the kernel.

.TP
.B dcc_proxy_timeout
Maxmimum amount of time (in seconds) to allow for both sides of
a DCC proxy to be connected.

.TP
.B dcc_proxy_sendreject
Whether to send a physical REJECT message via CTCP back to the
source of the request in event of failure.

 yes = Send reject CTCP message back.
 no = Do not send any message back.

.TP
.B dcc_send_fast
Whether to ignore the "acknowledgment" packets from the client and
just send the file to them as fast as possible.  There should be no
real danger in doing this.

 yes = Send as fast as possible.
 no = Wait for each packet to be acknowledged.

.TP
.B dcc_capture_directory
\fBdircproxy\fR can capture files sent via DCC and store them on the
server.  Especially useful while you are detached, whether it
does it while attached or not depends on '\fBdcc_capture_always\fR'.
This is the directory to store those captured files in.

If start with "~/" then it will use a directory under your home
directory.

 none = Do not capture files.

.TP
.B dcc_capture_always
If we're capturing DCC send's, should we do it while the client
is connected as well?  If 'yes', then the client will never see
the file, it'll be just stored on the server with a notice sent
to the client telling them where.

 yes = Capture even when a client is connected.
 no = Capture only when client detached.

.TP
.B dcc_capture_withnick
Whether to start the filename of the captured file with the
nickname of the sender, so you know who it came from.

 yes = Start with nickname.
 no = Do not alter the filename.

.TP
.B dcc_capture_maxsize
Maximum size (in kilobytes) that a captured file can be.  If
a captured file is larger than this, or becomes larger than
this, then the capture will be aborted and the file removed
from the disk.  Prevents people from filling your disk up while
you're detached with a massive file.

 0 = No limit to file size.

.TP
.B dcc_tunnel_incoming
Port of a local ssh tunnel leading to another \fBdircproxy\fR client that
we should use for incoming DCC requests.  This should not be set
if '\fBdcc_tunnel_outgoing\fR' is set.

See the README.dcc-via-ssh file included with the \fBdircproxy\fR
distribution for more information.

This can be a numeric port number, or a service name from /etc/services

 none = There is no tunnel.

.TP
.B dcc_tunnel_outgoing
Port of a local ssh tunnel leading to another \fBdircproxy\fR client that
we should use for outgoing DCC requests.  This should not be set
if '\fBdcc_tunnel_incoming\fR' is set.

See the README.dcc-via-ssh file included with the \fBdircproxy\fR
distribution for more information.

This can be a numeric port number, or a service name from /etc/services

 none = There is no tunnel.

.TP
.B switch_user
If you're running \fBdircproxy\fR as root, it can switch to a different
"effective user id" to create the server connection.  This means
that your system ident daemon (and therefore IRC, if it queries it)
will see your server connection as the user you put here, instead of
root.

This is most useful if you are sysadmin running a \fBdircproxy\fR server
for multiple people and want them to all appear as different usernames
without using a hacked identd.  Because \fBdircproxy\fR is still running as
root, it will have those privileges for all operations, including the
.BR bind (2)
for the '\fBlocal_address\fR' config option if you're using Secure
Linux patches.

This can only be used if your system supports
.BR seteuid (2)
and if you are running \fBdircproxy\fR as the root user, and not just setuid.
Attempting otherwise will generate a warning as \fBdircproxy\fR starts.

This can be a numeric uid or a username from /etc/passwd.

 none = Do not do this.

.TP
.B motd_logo
If this is yes, then the \fBdircproxy\fR logo and version number will be
included in the message of the day when you connect.  Only the picky
would turn this off, its pretty!

 yes = Show me the pretty logo
 no = I don't like logos, I'm boring, I eat llamas.

.TP
.B motd_file
Custom message of the day file to send when users connect to \fBdircproxy\fR.
The contents of this file will be sent after the logo and before the
stats.  If you start this with a "~/" then it refers to a file in
a directory under your home directory.

 none = No custom motd

.TP
.B motd_stats
Display information on what channels you were on, and log file sizes
etc in the message of the day.  This is handy, and lets you know how
not only much information you missed, but how much will be sent to you.

 yes = Show the stats
 no = They don't interest me, don't show them.

.TP
.B allow_persist
You can disable the /DIRCPROXY PERSIST command if you do not want
people using your proxy to be able to do that.

 yes = Command enabled
 no = Command disabled

.TP
.B allow_jump
You can disable the /DIRCPROXY JUMP command if you do not want
people to do that.

 yes = Command enabled
 no = Command disabled

.TP
.B allow_jump_new
If the /DIRCPROXY JUMP commmand is enabled, then you can disable it being
used to jump to a server:port not in the list specified in the configuration
file.

 yes = Can jump to any server
 no = Only ones in the config file

.TP
.B allow_host
You can disable the /DIRCPROXY HOST command if you do not want
people to do that.

 yes = Command enabled
 no = Command disabled

.TP
.B allow_die
You can enable the /DIRCPROXY DIE command if you want people
to be able to kill your proxy.  This isn't recommended as a global
option, instead only enable it for a specific connection class (ie yours).

 yes = Command enabled
 no = Command disabled

.TP
.B allow_users
You can enable the /DIRCPROXY USERS command if you want people
to be able to see who's using your proxy.  This isn't recommended as
a global option, instead only enable it for a specific connection class
(ie yours).

 yes = Command enabled
 no = Command disabled

.TP
.B allow_kill
You can enable the /DIRCPROXY KILL command if you want people
to be able to disconnect anyone using your proxy (including you!).
This isn't recommended as a global option, instead only enable it for
a specific connection class (ie yours).

 yes = Command enabled
 no = Command disabled

.PP
Additionally, the following keywords may go only inside a connection
class definition.  One '\fBpassword\fR' and at least one '\fBserver\fR'
(unless '\fBserver_autoconnect\fR' is 'no' and '\fBallow_jump_new\fR' is 'yes')
are mandatory.

.TP
.B password
Password required to use this connection class.  This should be encrypted
using your system's 
.BR crypt (3)
function.  It must be the same as the password supplied by the IRC client
on connection for this connection class to be used.

You can use the included
.BR dircproxy-crypt (1)
utility to generate these passwords.

.TP
.B server
Server to connect to.  Multiple servers can be given, in which case they
are iterated when the connection to one is dropped.  This has the following
format:

[\fBhostname\fR[:[\fBport\fR][:\fBpassword\fR]]

.TP
.B from
The connection hostname must match this mask, multiple masks can be
specified to allow more hosts to connect.  The * and ? wildcards may be
used.

.TP
.B join
Channels to join when you first connect.  Multiple channels can be given,
either by seperating the names with a comma, or by specifying multiple
'\fBjoin\fR' lines.  You may also include the channel key by seperating it
from the channel name with a space.

Note: You \fImust\fR surround the list of channels with quotes to
distinguish from comments.

For clarification, this is the format of this line:

join "\fBchannel\fR[ \fBkey\fR][,\fBchannel\fR[ \fBkey\fR]]..."

.SH SIGNALS
\fBdircproxy\fR will reread its configuration file whenever it receives
the hangup signal, \fISIGHUP\fR.
.PP
Sending an interrupt signal, \fISIGINT\fR, or a terminate signal,
\fISIGTERM\fR, will cause \fBdircproxy\fR to exit cleanly.

.SH NOTES
More information, including announcements of new releases, can be found
at:
.PP
.I http://www.dircproxy.net/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dircproxy-crypt (1)
.BR inetd (8)
.BR crypt (3)

.SH BUGS
Please submit and review bug reports at:
.PP
.I http://bugzilla.dircproxy.net/

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2002 Scott James Remnant.  All Rights Reserved.
\fBdircproxy\fR is distributed under the \fIGNU General Public
License\fR.
